# Powerlifting Visualization (Fullscreen to see title)
Data science project for DSC 106 class at UCSD. It is a group project using data from a powerlifting dataset provided by Aile. This project was accomplished by Noah Danan with collaborators Yujin Lee and Aile Banuelos.


We chose an interactive donut design to display powerlifters' average DOTS (Dynamic Object Team Rating System) scores throughout the years. A DOTS score is a person's relative strength that can be compared to other genders and weight classes. We wanted to make it easy for people to shuffle through the years therefore we made a slider ranging from 1997 to current day, 2024. We originally had the plan of doing averages based on different countries, but the idea of being able to see the United States throughout the years would be more informative than one year and multiple countries. With our data set, it makes it easy to see trends of powerlifter's average dots progress throughout the years. We used the federation USAPL as using all federations would give us many weight classes that are too close to one another. We also filtered for only lifters from the USA in order to narrow down the dataset as well as provide relevant data for most user.

The way we started was by going through and cleaning up the data, Aile suggested the data set and used SQL to go through the original CSV file to cut it down, as well as helping cut out data. Noah had suggested our design to use, as well as implementing the website to allow for the data to be presented. Yujin helped with grouping the data with years to make it better for Noah to get it into the website. We each contributed equally and helped out each other as much as we could. The aspect that took the most time was getting the data to work within the website and debugging any issues. Overall we spent the most time on this, as well as brain storming how to go about formatting and filtering data before pushing it to the Github repository. Another time consuming aspect was tweaking the formatting of the website in order to create an easily readable dataset. This included changing the background color in order to provide a good balance of contrast, changing the color scheme to a blue gradient, as well as centering and rearranging the write up and graph to help with the flow of the webpage. Formatting alone took hours as formatting one aspect would always cause issues for another, mostly in the form of objects overlapping each other. Small issues like this took up much of our time, but in the end it was worth it as now we have a neatly formatted final product.


One thing to take into consideration with this data set is that both non-tested lifters and equipped lifters are contributing to the average. Non-tested federations normally have lifters who are enhanced by drug usage aka steroids etc. Equipped lifters are people who use equipment that helps get their DOTS score higher by lifting more weight. This allows us to assume that the averages are higher than they would be if we had just used raw lifters (which is the most common type of lifter).
